Hi everyone, this is Malika and in this
video we're going to be reviewing an
interesting concept in number theory
called the Chinese remainder theorem. So
first I'm going to explain what this
theorem is and what it says. Next I'm
and then we're going to solve a few
practice problems that will help us you
know figure out how to go about solving
problems related to this. Let's get
started.
So the Chinese remainder theorem says
that if you're given a system of
equations in this case you have two but
there could be as many equations as you
need. So you have x congrent to a mod p
and x congrent to b mod q. This is
equivalent to saying that suppose a
final number which leaves a remainder of
three when divided by 5 and a remainder
of 7 when divided by 9 and you're
supposed to figure out what that number
is. So a question like that. So system
of equations has a unique solution for X
mod PQ which is whatever's on this side
you multiply. So it's modulo PQ if both
P and Q are co-prime. So you need to
make sure that whatever is on this mod P
or mod Q or mod R it has they have to be
co-prime. So what does it mean for two
numbers to be co-prime?
Two numbers are co-prime if the greatest
number that divides both of them is one.
So the GCD of both of these numbers is
one. For example,
seven and four. Seven is prime. So
there's no other number that and seven
is not a multiple of four. So these
numbers are co-prime.
6 and 8 are not co-prime because they
don't have GCD 1. Two divides both of
them. So the greatest common divisor is
not one. So 6 and 8 are not co-prime.
Hopefully that makes sense.
Okay,
important note before we begin is that
if there's more than two congencies, so
you have more than two equations that
you're supposed to solve for, uh, then
the moduli must be pair-wise co-prime.
So that it doesn't you need so if
there's three, then every pair of two
have to be co-prime to each other. And
if there's five, then every pair of two
within those five have to be co-prime to
each other in order for the Chinese
remainder theorem to hold true. So this
is just something that we're going to
verify each time to make sure that you
can get a unique solution with moduli um
capital n which would be this product of
all the numbers all the moduli.
Okay. So we're going to see that the
form of these questions is going to be x
congrent 2 a1 a2 all these numbers here
modulo
all these numbers here and then we know
the crt promises that we
assuming that all the ni are pairwise co
prime the crt tells us that there's
going to be a unique solution
modulo
the product of all the Nice.
Okay, we're going to see how to solve
questions like this with a practice
example.
So, we know that we're given that x
congrent to 2 6 and x is congrent to 3 5
and we need to find the smallest value
that um for x which satisfies these
conditions.
So, the cr would guarantee a unique
solution modulo 6 * 5 which is 30. It's
the product of these numbers here. Why?
Because 6 and 5 are co-prime.
The greatest number that divides both of
them is just one. So we can use the
Chinese remainder theorem here.
All right. So now we're going to look at
the first congrence. What's another way
to write it? So we know that x is
congrent to 2 6. So we can write x as 6
k + 2 for some integer
um for some integer k. Okay. And now
since we know that x is 6k + 2 from this
question we also know that x is congrent
to 3 5. So then we know that
uh 6k + 2 is congrent to 3 mod 5. And
now we're going to use mod operations to
figure out how to solve something like
this. So what what you can do is mod
operations allow you to subtract. So
we're going to get rid of this plus two
here. So we can write this as 6k
to 1 mod 5.
All right. And
um what is 6 mod 5? So we know that 6
mod 5 is 1. So this would simplify to k
congrent to 1
5.
Okay. So that means now we do the same
thing that we did for x here. We wrote x
as 6k + 2. So now we can write k as a
function of something else. So we write
k would then be 5 m
+ 1.
Okay. And now that we know that x is 6k
+ 2, we found that out here. We're going
to write use k = 5 m + 1 here. So we
write x = 6 * 5 m + 1 + 2. And then you
get 30 m + 6 + 2, which is 30 m + 8. And
if you notice here, this is the product
of all our nomis. So that means we can
write this as x well we're going to
write this as x congrent to 8 modulo 30.
And this is our set of solutions. So the
smallest x
that solves both these expressions here
is 8. And let's verify this. So 8 when
divided by 6 gives a remainder of two
and when divided by 5 gives a remainder
of three which works.
So 8
and then 8 30 will give the set of um
numbers that satisfy both these
equations.
Great. Now let's try solving uh with
three congrencies. So this would be a
little bit more work than solving with
just two. We're going to do the same
thing here. So first we only consider
the first two equations. So we're going
to do it one by one. So x congrent to 2
3 and 3 5. So we're going to take the
first one and since x is congrent to 2 3
we can write it as x = 3k + 2. Very
similar to how we did the first problem.
Um and now we're going to equate it to
the second expression. So 3k + 2 is
congrent to 3 5.
It's congrent to 35.
Okay. and then you subtract the two. So
3k is congrent to 1
5. So this is basically you want to find
the inverse. You want to find what value
when um you multiply three with what
value um would you get 1 5. So if you
multiply 3 * 2 that gives 1 5. So we're
going to do that here. So we write this
as six. So we're going to multiply both
sides by two. So 6k is congrent to 2 5
right. And now since we know that 6 is
congrent to 1 mod 5, we can just write
this as k is congrent to 2 5.
Okay. And that means we can write k as 5
m + 2.
Great. So now what we can do is
plug this into x. So since we know that
x = 3k + 2.
This is equal to 3 * 5 m + 2 + 2 which
is 15 m + 6 + 2 which is 15 m + 8. All
right. So this is our new value of x
that we see here. Um
so x
now we're going to use the third
equation. So third equation is x is
congrent to 4 7. So that means since we
know x is 15 m + 8 that means 15 m + 8
is congrent to 4 7.
All right. Now
we are going to subtract 8 from both
sides. So you get 15 m is congrent to -4
mod 7
um which is the same as 3 mod 7.
Right? So now we are have 15 m congrent
to 3 7 and then since we know that 15
can be written as 1 7
this is just m is congrent to 3 7
because we can just plug in this one
here and then we just left with m. Okay
so m is congrent to 3 7. So that means m
can be written as seven. Now we're going
to introduce a new yet a new variable.
Let's call it t + 3. Okay. And now we
can just plug plug this back in into our
15 m + 8. So that would be x
= uh 15 * 7 + 3
+ 8. So that would be 105 t
+ 45
+ 8
which is
105t
+ 53.
So that means
x can be written as 53
mod 105. This is our final answer. And
the smallest number that satisfies all
of these uh three expressions would be
53.
Okay, and that concludes our video.
Thank you so much for watching. I hope
you learned something new today. I'll
see you guys next time. Bye.